CHAPTERS XXIII and XXIV Of the Gospel According to St. Luke
In the King James Version, also known as the Authorized Version
READING BY FATHER ZILEY OF DETROIT
This is a LibriVox recording. All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain.
For more information, or to volunteer, contact LibriVox.org.
CHAPTER XXIII The Gospel of Luke
And a whole multitude of them arose and led him on to Pilate.
And they began to accuse him, saying,
We found this fellow perverting the nation,
and forbidding to give tribute to Caesar,
saying that he himself is Christ, a King.
And Pilate asked him, saying,
Art thou the King of the Jews?
And he answered him and said,
Thou sayest it.
Then said Pilate to the chief priests and to the people,
I find no fault in this man.
And they were the more fierce, saying,
He stirth up the people, teaching throughout all Jewry,
beginning from Galilee to this place.
When Pilate heard of Galilee, he asked whether the man were a Galilean.
And as soon as he knew that he belonged unto Herod's jurisdiction,
he sent him to Herod, who himself also was at Jerusalem at that time.
And when Herod saw Jesus, he was exceeding glad,
for he was desirous to see him of a long season,
because he had heard many things of him,
and he hoped to have seen some miracle done by him.
Then he questioned with him in many words,
but he answered him nothing.
And the chief priests and scribes stood and vehemently accused him.
And Herod with his men of war set him at naught, and mocked him,
and arrayed him in a gorgeous robe, and sent him again to Pilate.
And the same day Pilate and Herod were made friends together,
for before they were at enmity between themselves.
And Pilate, when he had called together the chief priests and the rulers
and the people, said unto them,
Ye have brought this man unto me as one that perverteth the people.
And behold, I, having examined him before you,
have found no fault in this man touching those things, whereof ye accuse him.
No, nor yet Herod, for I sent you to him,
and lo, nothing worthy of death is done unto him.
I will therefore chastise him and release him,
for of necessity he must release one unto them at the feast.
And they cried out all at once, saying,
Away with this man, and release unto us Barabbas,
who for a certain sedition made in the city and for murder was cast into prison.
Pilate therefore, willing to release Jesus, spake again to them,
but they cried, saying, Crucify him, crucify him.
And he said unto them the third time, Why, what evil hath he done?
I have found no cause of death in him, I will therefore chastise him and let him go.
And they were instant with loud voices requiring that he might be crucified,
and the voices of them and of the chief priests prevailed.
And Pilate gave sentence, that it should be as they required.
And he released unto them him that for sedition and murder was cast into prison,
whom they had desired. But he delivered Jesus to their will.
And as they led him away, they laid hold upon one Simon, a Cyrenian,
coming out of the country, and on him they laid the cross,
that he might bear it after Jesus. And there followed him a great company of people,
and of women, which also bewailed and lamented him.
But Jesus, turning unto them, said, Daughters of Jerusalem, weep not for me,
but weep for yourselves and for your children. For behold, the days are coming,
in the which they shall say, Blessed are the barren, and the wombs that never bear,
and the paps which never gave suck. Then shall they begin to say to the mountains,
Fall on us, and to the hills cover us. For if they do these things in a green tree,
what shall be done in the dry? And there were also two other
malefactors, led with him to be put to death. And when they were come to the place,
which is called Calvary, there they crucified him, and the malefactors,
one on the right hand, and the other on the left.
Then said Jesus, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do.
And they parted his reinment, and cast lots, and the people stood beholding.
And the rulers also with them derided him, saying, He saved others, let him save himself,
if he be Christ, the Chosen of God. And the soldiers also mocked him,
coming to him and offering him vinegar, and saying, If thou be the King of the Jews,
save thyself. And a superscription also was written over him in letters of Greek,
and Latin, and Hebrew, This is the King of the Jews.
And one of the malefactors which were hanged railed on him, saying, If thou be Christ,
save thyself and us. But the other answering rebuked him, saying,
Dost not thou fear God, seeing thou art in the same condemnation? And we indeed justly,
for we receive the due reward of our deeds. But this man hath done nothing amiss.
And he said unto Jesus, Lord, remember me when thou comest into thy kingdom.
And Jesus said unto him, Verily I say unto thee, Today shalt thou be with me in paradise.
And it was about the sixth hour, and there was a darkness over all the earth until the ninth hour.
And the sun was darkened, and the veil of the temple was rent in the midst.
And when Jesus had cried with a loud voice, he said, Father, into thy hands I commend my
spirit. And having said thus, he gave up the ghost. Now when the centurion saw what was done,
he glorified God, saying, Certainly this was a righteous man. And all the people that came
together to that site, beholding the things which were done, smote their breasts and returned.
And all his acquaintance and the women that followed him from Galilee stood afar off,
beholding these things. And behold, there was a man named Joseph, a counselor,
and he was a good man and a just. The same had not consented to the council and deed of them,
he was of Arimathea, a city of the Jews, who also himself waited for the kingdom of God.
This man went on the pilot and begged the body of Jesus, and he took it down and wrapped it in linen
and laid it in a sepulcher that was hewn in stone, wherein never man before was laid.
And that day was the preparation, and the Sabbath drew on. And the women also,
which came with him from Galilee, followed after and beheld the sepulcher and how his
body was laid. And they returned and prepared spices and ointments and rested the Sabbath
day according to the commandment. Chapter 24
Now upon the first day of the week, very early in the morning, they came unto the sepulcher,
bringing the spices which they had prepared, and certain others with them. And they found
the stone rolled away from the sepulcher. And they entered in, and found not the body
of the Lord Jesus. And it came to pass, as they were much perplexed thereabout, behold,
two men stood by them in shining garments. And as they were afraid, and bowed down their faces to
the earth, they said unto them, Why seek ye the living among the dead? He is not here,
but is risen. Remember how he spake unto you when he was yet in Galilee, saying,
The son of man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men, and be crucified,
and the third day rise again. And they remembered his words, and returned from the sepulcher,
and told all these things unto the eleven, and to all the rest.
It was Mary Magdalene, and Joanna, and Mary the mother of James, and other women that were with
them, which told these things unto the apostles. And their words seemed to them as idle tales,
and they believed them not. Then arose Peter, and ran unto the sepulcher, and stooping down,
he beheld the linen clothes laid by themselves, and departed, wondering in himself
at that which was come to pass. And behold, two of them went that same day to a village
called Emmaus, which was from Jerusalem about three score furlongs, and they talked together
of all these things which had happened. And it came to pass that while they communed together,
and reasoned, Jesus himself drew near, and went with them. But their eyes were holden that they
should not know him. And he said unto them, What manner of communications are these, that ye have
one to another, as ye walk and are sad? And the one of them, whose name was Cleopas, answering,
said unto him, Art thou only a stranger in Jerusalem, and hast not known the things
which are come to pass there in these days? And he said unto them, What things?
And they said unto him, Concerning Jesus of Nazareth, which was a prophet, mighty in deed
and word before God and all the people, and how the chief priests and our rulers delivered him to
condemn to death, and have crucified him. But we trusted that it had been he which should have
redeemed Israel. And beside all this, today is the third day since these things were done.
Yea, and certain women also of our company made us astonished which were early at the sepulcher.
And when they found not his body, they came saying that they had also seen a vision of angels
which said that he was alive. And certain of them which were with us went to the sepulcher
and found it even so as the women had said, but him they saw not.
Then he said unto them, O fools and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken.
Ought not Christ to have suffered these things and to enter into his glory?
And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded unto them in all the scriptures
the things concerning himself. And they drew nigh unto the village whither they went,
and he made as though he would have gone further. But they constrained him saying,
Abide with us, for it is toward evening, and the day is far spent, and he went in to Terry with them.
And it came to pass, as he sat at meet with them, he took bread, and blessed it,
and break, and gave to them. And their eyes were opened, and they knew him,
and he vanished out of their sight. And they said one to another, Did not our heart burn within us
while he talked with us by the way, and while he opened to us the scriptures?
And they rose up the same hour, and returned to Jerusalem, and found the eleven gathered together,
and them that were with them, saying, The Lord is risen indeed, and hath appeared to some of us,
Simon. And they told what things were done in the way, and how he was known of them
in breaking of bread. And as they thus spake, Jesus himself stood in the midst of them,
and saith unto them, Peace be unto you. But they were terrified, and affrighted,
and supposed that they had seen a spirit. And he said unto them, Why are ye troubled?
And why do thoughts arise in your hearts? Behold my hands and my feet, that it is I myself.
Handle me, and see, for a spirit hath not flesh and bones, as ye see me have.
And when he had thus spoken, he showed them his hands and his feet. And while they yet believed
not for joy, and wondered, he said unto them, Have ye any meat? And they gave him a piece
of a broiled fish, and of a honeycomb. And he took it, and did eat before them.
And he said unto them, These are the words which I spake unto you while I was yet with you,
that all things must be fulfilled which were written in the law of Moses, and in the prophets,
and in the Psalms concerning me. Then opened he their understanding that they might understand
the scriptures. And said unto them, Thus it is written, and thus it behoved Christ to suffer,
and to rise from the dead the third day. And that repentance and remission of sins should be
preached in his name among all nations, beginning at Jerusalem. And ye are witnesses of these things.
And, behold, I send the promise of my Father upon you, but tarry ye in the city of Jerusalem
until ye be endued with power from on high. And he led them out as far as to Bethany,
and he lifted up his hands and blessed them. And it came to pass, while he blessed them,
he was parted from them, and carried up into heaven. And they worshiped him, and returned
to Jerusalem with great joy, and were continually in the temple, praising and blessing God. Amen.
The end of the Gospel according to Saint Luke in the King James Version, also known as the
Authorized Version, read by Father Zeile of Detroit, December, 2008.